[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> There's someone there.
Just let him put down
his loading dock door.
OK.
Oh, my god.
Utterly perfect.
This is all perfectly
good food that
shouldn't have gone to waste.
And they have a
food waste program.
There are people who
could eat this food.
Best before the
17th of February.
That's today, in the garbage.
Outrageous.
I think of myself as
an accidental activist
because it was really all
about the quality of my life.
I wanted to find my purpose.
Really, what I care
about most is making sure
that hungry people
get surplus food,
and that it doesn't
go to landfill.
Globally, a third of all
food is going to waste.
It's perfectly good.
>> Who wants some chicken?
>> We produce enough food for
all the people in the world.
But we don't have enough
food for everybody.
Yeah, doesn't make sense.
I've set myself a target.
Green gold.
I'm totally committed
to making sure
that good food doesn't go to
waste anywhere in the world.
So first I want to fix
it here, and then we'll
take it to the world.
Being a change maker involves
pissing some people off
and ruffling many fins.
It's a little scary
to go out on a limb,
but that is what
I'm going to have
to win the fight going forward.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I don't know.
This is a treasure trove, but
I have no idea where to begin.
Oh, my god.
Me at five or six.
Me and my mom in our
house in Johannesburg.
Oh.
That's my childhood
sweetheart, Alan.
Me doing aerobics in the days
of Jane Fonda, shiny Lycra.
I looked so young.
Oh.
My two beautiful sons.
This is from Edo
and Jo's wedding.
My other son, Nadav,
and his wife, Jessie.
Don't know what this is.
I came here with no work
in 1988 and just started
an events company.
And I recall a $500,000
corporate event.
When it ended,
all I did was just
take thousands of kilos
of food and dump it.
That was that beginning
of me thinking, wow.
There must be stacks
of food going to waste.
Now I seemingly had money.
And you know what?
It was empty.
The guy that I was
living with, when I said,
you know, I'm thinking
of starting a charity,
he said, I don't
believe in charity.
And I realized that
I was completely
living out of integrity.
So I dumped him, and
I thought, I'll just
go to South Africa
for a week and just
think about what I am doing.
It definitely was
guilt connected
to leaving South Africa.
I left because of apartheid.
I didn't want to stay.
I didn't fight it
because I wasn't brave.
I'm sorry that I didn't do that.
And I contacted this old
beautiful family friend
of ours, Dr. Selma Browde,
who was an activist
during the apartheid era.
And she said, awesome.
You'll come with me to Soweto.
I'd never been to Soweto.
And as we drove in, Selma
turned round and said,
I was responsible for
electricity in Soweto.
I just went, whoa.
The hairs on my arms
stood up, and I just
wondered what it could
feel like to know
if you have had an impact
on millions of people.
And so that was that light
bulb moment that said,
this is what I want to do.
I was committed to
coming back to Australia
and to starting a food
rescue organization,
and I called it OzHarvest.
But I continued
running my business,
and in 2009 I won the Vodafone
World of Difference award.
But one of the
conditions of the award
is you have to stop
the work that you're
doing in order to work full time
in the charity of your choice.
I decided it was
either now or never.
So I close the doors
of my business,
and that's when
this all happened.
>> There is no space this week.
This is today, so little
bits of white are free time.
And that's 5:00.
>> Now what?
Now what?
>> You've got hedge.
It's like a game of-- not chess
so much, it's like a puzzle.
>> Until I had Marla, I wouldn't
get to an appointment on time.
>> I've got a little
bit of yellow here,
but I like my pink.
I like my pink.
Tracy's not here.
>> How many people we have?
At my last count,
it was 125 before I
brought five new people in.
We've created a brand.
We're bright, we're yellow,
we sexy, we're lovable.
>> So have you
donated to us before?
>> What I need to run our
business this coming year is
$12 million, I've
been told yesterday.
>> What's your location, please?
>> $12 million.
>> I should not be
sleeping at night.
>> My nearest driver's
in Nairobi know.
>> The money's there.
I just have to find it.
>> Right.
>> I don't take
no for an answer.
I have an enormous
amount of cheek.
amount of chutzpah,
and I'm going to use it to
the absolute n-th degree.
So Steve, have I got everything?
>> Yeah.
>> Okey-dokes.
Best part for me is not when
I'm sitting in the office.
For me, being on the
ground is where it's at.
In the van today,
there is frozen meat,
there are bread rolls,
there is fresh food,
and they will be delivered
that to a whole range of people
who kind of have fallen
through the cracks.
>> On the cement,
not on the grass.
>> Right here in this country, 2
million people suffer from food
insecurity.
>> Oh, they're nice
pies and sausage rolls.
>> Well I hope that the
food helps a little.
>> Oh, yeah.
It stops that pain in the
guts, that's for sure.
>> Absolutely.
>> What we're left with after--
>> Yeah.
>> That is not much left.
>> It's crazy.
>> Want some lettuce, darling?
>> Yeah, great.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> What I want for OzHarvest
is way more than just feeding
people.
I want to fix things.
I'm a fix it person.
And to fix the problem, I'm
going to need government.
I'm going to need big business.
I'm going to need
all of them on side.
>> Hey.
I've just gotten off the phone
with the minister's office.
He is a go tomorrow
at the launch.
>> Awesome.
>> So you're on
a flight at 6:00.
I've emailed you
your boarding pass.
Bye.
>> Why did I start OzHarvest
when it was a government issue?
For me, to see the gap and see
the government wasn't doing it,
I could either be pissed
off and do nothing,
or I can be pissed off
and go into action.
We are asking our
nation's leaders
to set a target to minimize food
waste by at least 50% by 2025.
So every single thing
here, first of all,
has been a rescued.
>> Really?
Big one What a tragedy
that that would
have ended up in a
landfill somewhere.
>> Absolutely.
>> How would you get this food
out to those that most need it?
>> So there are 32 refrigerated
vehicles on the road with
drivers who are trained
in safe food handling--
>> That's the thing.
>> --collecting this food.
Those vehicles will be
delivering this food
to over 700 different charitable
organizations around Australia.
>> That's the key.
>> All this food would have
been thrown out, Philip.
>> I can't believe it.
>> Australia must address the
$10 billion food waste bill
so that in 10 years' time, I'm
not standing here addressing
all of you and saying that
either it is $10 billion
or more than that.
It must be less.
>> Please welcome the
Minister for Environment,
the Honorable Greg Hunt MP.
>> Today I want to announce a
national food waste strategy.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> That's a good start.
I want to be involved
in what happens.
I'm not going to let up.
I'm going to make sure
that we get there.
>> Did he talk to you about the
road show he wants take you on?
>> Marla.
Marla and I-- oh my
god, I love her to bits.
And she actually rules my life.
>> No, you missed.
>> I missed.
>> I play a lot of different
roles with her life--
Awesome.
--from traffic cop--
She's out of the office
all this afternoon.
--and cat herder to firefighter.
>> Why have I made a note that
on the 11th of June at 4:00 PM?
>> And travel agent.
>> I need to be somewhere.
>> All good, though.
>> What day is that?
I know that I'd drive her crazy
because I say, no, fit it in.
I can do this, this, and
this and this and this
and this and this.
And she says, well, how
are you going to do that?
>> It's about 10 days
out of the office.
>> And I say, that's your job.
Make it happen.
So we have our major fundraising
event, the CEO CookOff
This is the fifth year.
I was aiming for 1.5.
That's my goal.
And we invite 1,000
homeless people,
and we feed them with dignity.
It's their night out.
>> Something happened in my
life and upturned my life,
and I didn't recover
that well from it,
made a few bad
decisions, and here I am.
>> It's about leaders getting
an opportunity to engage with
our recipients.
Putting on an event like
this is what I used to do,
doing these kinds of events
that made me start OzHarvest.
Who wants a red carpet?
We just want a yellow
carpet, a yellow
because yellow is the color
that makes the world go round.
Hello, my darling.
>> How's it all going?
Under control?
>> Hello, all you
gorgeous people.
Thank you for being here.
>> I started doing fundraisers
for Ronni 12 years ago when she
wanted to put her first
truck on the road.
Immovable force,
unstoppable object,
you can't say no to her.
She has powered this thing
from one truck to 34.
I come back to this great
idea, taking fantastic
produce that was
going into landfill,
rescuing it, and
taking it to charities
who can then look after people
who are homeless and need it.
>> Ronni, do you want
to bring out the tote]?
>> 1,419,087 and climbing.
[SINGING]
The party's starting.
That's what's happening.
Just a cool drink.
That's a mocktail.
>> Let's give a huge round of
applause for the one and only
Ronni Kahn.
[APPLAUSE]
>> You are the VIPs tonight.
Thank you to each and every one
of you for enriching my life.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Did I thank the right people?
>> Yes, you did.
So just take a few
minutes and breathe.
Look at everybody.
>> (SINGING) It's all right.
If you have love,
send it over my way.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> We're heading to Qantas
catering because we have
an arrangement that three times
a week we can make food that
comes off the planes.
But truth is, we are only
collecting a teeny weeny bit.
When I popped my
head in before, there
were just bins of beautiful
food that we couldn't take.
And so I want to go
and understand it
more so that I can
go back to them
and really have a
confrontational conversation
about, yes, what
they're doing is good.
But is it good enough?
>> I'm filming.
I'm filming John.
>> You put in the good stuff.
>> And that goes
back over there.
>> And that gets recycled?
OK.
What happens to that
poor little yogurt?
>> It has to go in the
bin, unfortunately.
>> We've got a cold check.
That's a check.
>> How much of this disappears?
>> It's still kind of cold.
>> Why can't I take it?
>> Because we can't
guarantee that it's cold.
>> Everyone's concerned
about the liability.
>> Oh, my god.
So the bottom line
is that they say
it's broken the chain of cold
storage, which is correct.
From the time that it gets
out of the refrigeration
until such time as my
people would pick it up,
there's a good few hours, and
they can't take that risk.
They don't want to
be held liable, even
though they are not liable.
So the Civil Liabilities
Amendment Act
removes the liability from them.
>> Up to $10 billion--
>> Says Australians throw out--
>> 35 million tons.
>> What's changed in the last
two years is this growing
awareness about food waste.
In the US, they're started to
talk about some kind of tax
on food waste.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> In Europe, governments
are legislating.
In 2016, the law
changed in France.
Supermarkets have to
give away their food.
Otherwise, they'll get fined.
I know that there's so much
food wasted in the supermarkets,
but I know that there's food
on the farms that doesn't even
make it to the supermarkets.
For me, it's about fact
finding and hopefully not
shock finding.
In terms of gross food
waste, we are up there
with the biggest offenders.
But even if we weren't, it's
bad enough that $10 billion
worth of good food goes
to waste right here.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hello.
>> I'm Stan.
How are you?
>> Very good.
I'm Ronni.
This is Marla.
>> Nice to meet you both.
Welcome to the farm.
>> Thank you.
Those are very beautiful
looking, enormous--
>> Organic.
>> --organic lemons.
>> Organic lemons.
But they are too big, too
ripe, and not sellable.
>> Why?
>> If I was to
present this to, say,
Coles and Woolworths for
display, or sale in their shop,
they wouldn't be
able to accept it.
It doesn't comply with their
sizings or their standards,
even though it's still a
beautiful lemon and better
value.
It's riper, it's sweeter,
and it's juicier.
These ones you can pull
off there, for example,
and just drop them on the floor.
>> Drop it on the floor?
But it's perfect.
>> I know, I know.
>> Where's this guy?
>> This is going to be part of
a waste dump, unfortunately.
As you can see, the
quality of the stuff,
we just cut some
of this to you now.
It's unfortunate.
>> But it looks beautiful.
>> It breaks my heart to do
this as well as anyone else's.
I hate seeing this.
>> Oh.
Terrible.
In a lot of cities, we try
and get out to farmers.
We ask to take some
of the produce,
and we give that
to hungry people.
>> It's wonderful,
delicious, not like you taste
in the supermarket.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hello.
>> Hello, ladies.
Welcome to Far North Queensland.
>> Thank you so much.
Do you have waste?
>> Yeah, we have a lot of
waste, sometimes up to 30%
of the crop.
So these bananas are
going into the bin,
and they'll get pulped.
>> Just because they've
got a blemish on them?
>> They're perfectly edible,
but we have to waste them
because the supermarkets
won't accept them.
So this is our scrap bananas,
and we put them in the truck
and take them back
out to the paddock
and dump them out
in the paddock.
>> Doesn't this
break your heart?
>> Yeah, it's a real shame
because a lot of love goes
into growing it.
The specifications for
what we need to grow,
they've got a lot tighter.
And that just creates
an expectation
of the perfect looking
fruit all the time,
which just means
we throw more out.
>> That's ridiculous.
We have to understand that
someone has grown that food,
and that's taken water
and fuel and energy.
Then to reject it is inhumane.
OzHarvest has partnered with the
biggest retailer in Australia,
which is Woolworths.
I was just in
Northern Queensland,
and I saw farmers who
were throwing away
produce because the lemons
were too big, too small.
Tell me, who decides
the specifications
that this is Odd Bunch and
that over there is perfect?
>> So our specifications
a customer led.
So we have customers
that walk into our stores
and expect the best of the best.
But obviously, there
is a growing trend
with reducing food
waste, and customers
are becoming more susceptible
to a little bit of marking.
>> External.
>> Yeah, external,
purely external.
The inner quality
is still the same.
I nearly died at the
banana plantation
because a third got
discarded, and you're
saying it's consumer led.
So we need to talk
with our feet and say,
we'll come to this
part of the supermarket
and not to the other part.
>> Absolutely, yeah.
Currently, the Odd Bunch
represents under 1%
of the total department sales.
Our short-term goal
is to get it to 10%.
>> And my goal is
50% as soon as.
>> We'll have to look
at that challenge.
>> They look nice and frickly.
I bought two bags of shop.
>> All right.
This was $75.70.
>> Research says that one in
five shopping bags get thrown
away.
Bye-bye.
>> Bye.
>> I have to assume
that out of my $75 shop,
if I weren't aware, a lot
of that would go to waste,
and some of that
would go to landfill.
Outrageous.
Oh my god, this is shocking.
Every time we throw
away food, methane gas
is emitted into the climate.
So food waste is
a huge pollutant.
What we know is that if
food waste were a country,
it would be the third biggest
emitter of methane gas.
I had no idea the environmental
impact we would have.
It didn't take very
long to realize
that every single time that
we were collecting food,
it wasn't going to landfill.
Haven't got a lot in my fridge--
some dal, papaya, some milk.
I wish I could say
that I didn't waste.
But I live by myself,
so I make sure that
can't buy too much food.
Now it's good to
go to the world.
This poor little pepper
is five weeks old.
I bought it thinking
I was going to eat
a salad that night, literally.
I've traveled to New York,
I've traveled to the world
and back, and this
poor little pepper's
still been in my fridge.
This is not going
to go to landfill.
This is going to go into
my little composter.
It is time for you to go.
This is my precious
food waste bin
that's changed my life because
now I don't have to put stuff
in the garbage bin.
I put all my organic
food scraps and flowers
into this little
bin, and I sprinkle
special sawdust in between.
This is like nutrient goodness
that comes out of all this.
Food doesn't go to landfill.
Then I go and bury that, and
it's composting the earth.
And the liquid
nurtures my new plants
and also it cleans my drains.
I haven't done it
in the drains yet.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> She somehow manages to
thrive in spite of some
of the adversity
that comes her way.
Ronni is just in
a heap of sadness.
>> Yeah, grief is something
we've just experienced
because we lost my
daughter in law to cancer.
Just doesn't seem possible.
Doesn't seem possible.
But we've been very
privileged and blessed
to have for the seven years
that she came into our life.
>> And it's been hard watching
her go through it and not being
able to help very much.
>> We had no idea when
the initial call came from
the Premier's department.
They said, we're looking at
bringing a very important--
they said very important people.
We were speculating.
Was Barack Obama coming to town?
It was all of those things.
Then they called
us to say, yes, we
are bringing her Royal Highness,
the Duchess of Cornwall.
The big day is arriving.
We've just done a run-through
with some members of protocol
in preparation for the
Duchess of York's visit.
Who would have thought--
>> Cornwall.
>> The Duchess of Cornwall.
I'm allowed to call her either
her Royal Highness or ma'am,
and that actually goes
for anyone, ma'am.
And I do want to thank Marla
because she has single-handedly
managed security, the police,
the protocol, the Premier's
department.
>> They ask, please, no
touching, no hugging,
no kissing on the cheek.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> We've just had the police
come in because they need
to make sure that
the place is secure.
It's a huge thing for OzHarvest.
We've been on national TV,
we've been on international TV.
I hope that all of
you are incredibly
proud that you put your money
into such a good investment.
But it wouldn't have happened if
it wasn't-- and I was not going
to cry because I'm so excited.
So we are going to take
you through and show you
our kitchen.
Come on in.
The food that they
make today will go out
to our people for dinner.
So they get to
taste a teeny bit,
but the bulk of the
food they prepare
will go out to our people.
Thank you.
>> I'll go get your
bread and butter.
>> This is my EA that I
couldn't live without.
>> You have a hard task.
>> Oh, I've got a wonderful job.
>> And she said, there's nothing
like OzHarvest in the UK.
So I sent her a message saying,
yeah, we'd love to come.
Would she consider
being a patron,
and would you help us create it?
UKHarvest, here we come.
Tonight's going to be really
interesting because my job is
to expose and find
surplus and make sure
that good food
doesn't go to waste.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I've got my torch.
Oh my god--
>> Does it matter
which way the...
>> --we're going into a mine.
>> Yeah.
>> It's freezing.
Oh my god.
>> Wow.
>> Oh my--
>> Bread, bread, more bread.
>> Fruit and veg.
>> Oh my god.
>> Cakes.
>> Wow.
>> Every time I come for a dive,
there's only so much that I can
take.
>> You must save just an
extraordinary amount of money.
>> The amount that I get might
even be thousands of dollars,
just in one night.
>> What does your
mother think about this?
>> My mum does not
live in this state,
so my mum does not know
about my eating habits.
>> Ah.
>> And she will not know.
We have chiles, okra.
They're delicious.
>> They are delicious.
Got it.
>> There's a whole thing of
scones that it's dated, like,
the 19th of October.
It's not the 19th yet.
>> Today's the 17th, I think.
>> Yeah.
>> Look at all the scones.
That's just sad.
>> Which store is it?
If it's Woolworths, seriously,
I'm ducking into the car.
Not in my interest
to be caught here.
>> The worst thing that can
happen is a security guard
comes out and asks you to
leave, and then you leave.
And that's really
the worst of it.
So it's not so bad.
>> Marla, doesn't
look too closely.
>> What?
>> It's from our major supplier.
>> Oh.
It could be going
to hungry people.
But it's also bread products.
>> All this food could be
going to hungry people,
but there's a mass
of cakes and breads.
Yeah, this is all
from Woolworths.
That's shocking.
>> Oh, yes.
Oh my goodness.
>> That bin that we just
saw would have been illegal
in France.
We are such an
over-legislated country.
Why do we need more laws?
I think that are much
better ways of tackling it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> You're very good
at MCing, though.
>> Hello.
Sorry, sorry, sorry, everyone.
Hello.
>> Hi, Ronni.
>> There is a little bit of
dialogue around Woolworths,
maybe an update, Ronni, on what
is basically one of our most
important partnerships.
>> So first of all, the
relationship with Woolworths is
plodding along really well.
It's frustrating.
They talk about wanting
to minimize food waste.
We are their national
food partner.
Having said that, we went
with some dumpster divers
and landed up behind
the Woolworths
in a dumpster that was
filled with magnificent food.
>> Once you can get
around the flashpoint,
now let's sit down and have
a proper conversation about,
what do we do about this?
>> All they're worried
about is brand reputation.
And where they
are panicking is--
well, where are they
doing the emotional screws
is you are our
national food partner,
and you're about to screw us.
>> The bigger problem is
what's in the dumpster.
>> Right.
>> We found it in a heartbeat.
What if it's counterfeit?
>> Plenty of other people
are going to find this
in a heartbeat at some stage
over the next period of time.
If your reputation is going
to be sullied by this,
so will ours.
>> Today, they see us as a risk.
They think I'm going to--
>> That's the objective
of your conversation is,
I'm going to get
rid of this for you.
But we're here to be
part of the solution.
Is everyone cool with that?
>> Yeah, think so.
>> Awesome.
>> Yeah.
>> The Woolies discussion is a
real-life example of the sorts
of things that we talk about.
Ronni is so passionate
about food rescue
and helping those in
need that, really, you're
either on that
bus or you're not.
And Ronni's bus is going
in 150 miles an hour.
And so while some people
might be on the bus in theory,
they can't move at that pace.
And so that does sometimes
create some conflict.
>> As with anyone who has such
drive and such passion and such
a singular vision, there's going
to be a little bit of carnage
on the way.
Yeah, absolutely.
Ronni is not
everyone's cup of tea.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> As a result of
Camilla visiting us,
we've had the wonderful
chain of events.
First of all, they're very
keen for us to come to the UK.
That's part of what I'm
expecting I want you to come.
Our major event, THE
CEO CookOff, took place.
I hear you.
We'll give you another one.
And I was introduced to the CEO
of the Jamie Oliver Foundation.
>> The CEO CookOff.
This is--
>> They would very much like
us to produce a CEO CookOff
in the UK together
with Jamie Oliver.
See you in heaven.
Shut the door.
Thank you.
So I'll be going
to meet with them,
and I'm also going to be
looking for a CEO for UkHarvest.
We'll have a very
spectacular night.
If you'd have asked me 12
years ago, not only would
you start an
organization that'll
make a significant
difference to Australia--
>> There's been a
call for a pickup--
>> --but--
>> Just send the job through.
>> --actually across the
world, I would have said
you're dreaming.
What we've done
is refined a model
that is duplicable and
replicable around the world.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So right here in London I'm
meeting with Yvonne Thompson.
She is the CEO of the
newly fledgling UKHarvest,
and her job is to
bring it to life.
And when we had our first
conversation with me
still in Sydney and
in the UK, I already
hired her over the phone.
Amanda, Camilla's right hand
person, is setting there.
And she invited two
more people to come in,
and they just wanted to know
what they could do to help.
They love us to bits.
We are the most lucky people.
>> To have the launch on the
same day as the CEO CookOff is
just incredible because then
you get such a big bang in terms
of publicity.
>> And she's agreed to
come to the CEO CookOff.
>> It's particularly
extraordinary because the food
waste space in London's
very male dominated,
so I think the importance
is having women,
positive active women, who will
do good and deliver goodness.
Dear Yvonne, the
Duchess of Cornwall
is delighted to take on
the patronage of UKHarvest.
This is a major fucking coup.
>> So right here I've got both
timezones happening in her
schedule, so I can see
right now in London time.
Today, Ronni is
going to be meeting
with the head of the Jamie
Oliver Foundation, which
is a really big deal.
>> Jamie is the most well-known
food icon in the world.
And actually, I've not been
allowed to talk to him yet,
and I am convinced that he's
being protected by his people.
And so I'm worried he doesn't
get the DNA, the soul,
of our event.
But I'm not going to rock the
boat because I think, actually,
I've had to make a
compromise in terms of,
do I want the event with Jamie
for what that will do for us?
>> I think the important thing
for us is to make sure that we
have that partnership
together, and it's strong.
So the first time
we're doing it,
we've got Jamie
Oliver as a platform.
We do the event, we
make it successful,
we plan the next one.
How does that sound?
>> Yeah.
I just want to be clear.
I want to hear you tell
me who our guests are.
>> So I will be really honest--
homeless people in London.
They tend to be problematic,
as in drugs alcohol problems.
>> Can I just change the
terminology from homeless
to vulnerable because vulnerable
people are not all homeless?
>> Oh, I get it.
Coming back up and
feeding it into Jamie,
he said, I feel
uncomfortable turning up
with a bunch of my privileged
mates and privileged CEOs,
almost like cooking
at those people.
>> But the way it's sold is you
can break bread with somebody
who you would never have
an opportunity to talk with
because you walk past them,
and they're transparent
on the street.
But when they walk
through the door
and they're sitting as guests,
you get an opportunity.
And that's the humbling
part for a CEO.
>> I said to him, well, OK, I
understand you're not feeling
good about the homeless and
the vulnerable side of things.
What about war vets?
And that's how we got
to public servants,
everyday here heroes, the
nurses that wipe bums all day,
the street cleaners, people who
really appreciate the evening.
>> Can we talk about alcohol?
>> Also comes from Jamie.
He said, I'm not bringing
out my best mate CEOs
and inviting them to a dry do.
He said, I feel
that's a bit mean.
>> It's not about meanness.
It's actually about
making a statement.
>> That's you-- you
made that statement,
which is obviously up to make.
It's not a statement
that Jamie would make.
>> Well, certainly, if we're
not having vulnerable people,
then we have less of an
issue about having alcohol.
>> I think Ronni
doesn't compromise.
I think she's a woman
of massive principles.
Ronni Kahn is an
inspirational free spirit.
She's like a jack in the box.
The box opens, and she pops out.
And what people see that, they
either love it or loathe it.
>> How can I go to the
altar with anyone who
doesn't understand
my core values?
>> The reserved culture
of the UK, I think,
found it a bit too much.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hi.
Oh my god, it is crazy.
It's crazy.
>> What?
>> Everything is crazy.
So we're going to
Paris Thursday night.
We're meeting Arash,
the councillor
that changed the law.
And there's a lot of
controversy around it,
and so we also have meetings
with some of the charities.
So it's going to be awesome.
>> Fantastic.
>> Bye.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Joining me now is Arash
Derambarsh who initiated
the legal change in France.
>> Pioneering move
is Arash Derambarsh.
>> Arugula salad?
>> The decision makes France
the first country in the world
to prohibit supermarkets
throwing away or destroying
food they don't sell.
>> Hi.
Nice to meet you.
>> Bonjour.
Lovely to meet you.
>> My country, 10
million persons hungry.
We cannot wait.
>> Right.
So you had to set a target.
>> We need action.
The next step is Europe.
>> Yep.
>> Of course, lots of countries.
I want the same
thing in Australia.
>> So in Australia, the law
was first changed in Victoria
in 2002.
Then in 2005, we
had the laws changed
in another state, in
2008 in another state,
in 2009 then another two states.
Our law says we will give you
food like a good Samaritan,
in good faith.
So the supermarkets
are not liable.
>> You are amazing diplomats.
I'm sure that you are.
>> I have to be.
I also have to be an activist.
We're both fighting
the same fight.
We've got the exact
same target, and we've
got the exact same goal.
>> This is a global--
>> Movement.
>> --movement for society.
>> I guess that the many parts--
>> I love that.
>> Which one?
That's Hebrew.
>> Who offer you?
>> That's Hebrew.
>> Yeah.
But who offer you that?
>> Ah.
So my daughter-in-law
just passed away.
She died, elle mourut.
>> Your daughter?
>> My-- yeah, oui,
mais, that's OK.
And a very special
person gave her this.
>> What was her name?
>> Her name was Jo.
>> Sorry.
>> And it says on
it, God, please heal.
She was a beautiful--
merci beaucoup.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I'd question the value of a
law that says supermarkets
must give their food away.
I'd much rather
do what I've done,
which is form a partnership
with supermarkets
and making sure that that
food that is available
goes to feed people.
Hello, Benjamin.
>> Hello.
How are you?
>> Very good, thanks.
So explain to me--
>> How it works.
>> --how it works here.
>> We try to help people,
to provide them food.
We try to make it as
a supermarket kind of,
with shelves.
There is a system
of cash points.
So it works exactly
like a little shop.
When you first are
called me up to explain
us the situation
of the family, you
have to show evidence
that you really need food.
We have a really nice
piece of meat, you see.
>> Beautiful.
And when does it must be used?
Today.
>> By today.
>> But you and me both know--
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> --that if they
don't use it today,
nothing will happen to them.
>> And that's what the
volunteers also explain.
>> There are people in need that
do not need to prove to me why
they're in need.
And while I'm
standing there, I'm
thinking I'm going to go to
my Woolworths people and say,
what if you set me up in
a little mini supermarket.
And we collect all your
surplus and we set it up
like a supermarket?
>> It was hard getting
people to the table.
Not everyone believed
in what we were doing.
>> It's been a year since
we were in Canberra.
>> Today, I want to announce a
national food waste strategy.
>> And nothing has happened,
which is why we're creating
a Zero Food Waste Forum
and which is why we believe
a collaborative approach
is hugely important.
I've got Woolworths.
There's absolutely no doubt
that OzHarvest by itself
is not going to minimize all
the food waste in Australia.
We have pulled together
Woolworths, Aldi, Coles,
government, food
rescue organizations.
This has never happened
before, not in this format.
I've done this because
government hasn't.
The purpose of the
Zero Food Waste Forum
was to bring together
all the stakeholders
so that collectively
we could look
at how we can solve the
massive issue of food waste.
Ultimately, it was
said, no media.
A lot of trust was
built despite the fact
that there was so much
distrust when we all walked in.
>> Just that some people didn't
throw punches was amazing.
>> Yeah, that nobody
punched anybody.
>> Including you.
>> Did we get to where
I wanted to get to?
Absolutely no.
But I'm encouraged that the
conversation has started.
Do we have to wrap it up?
You'd better believe it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I might have a solution
to a problem that's
been bugging me for 12 years.
I'm going to see this
guy, then what he does
is computer-generated
illustrations.
I'm really hoping that what I
see can blow people's minds.
>> Ronni.
>> Hi.
>> Good to see you.
>> Oh, I haven't seen
you for a long time.
>> Chris, people don't
understand what food waste is.
They don't get it.
They hear it.
>> Yeah.
>> $10 billion-- how can
people visualize what that is?
>> So the first thing
that I did, really,
was work out what $10 billion
worth of food waste looks like.
So I took the
average grocery bag,
and we worked out there's
probably about $50.
>> Yeah.
>> So then you have
three bags, $150.
>> Yep.
>> And this one here
is about $1,000.
>> Yeah.
>> And this is $100,000 worth.
>> Oh, that's so clever.
It's powerful because we know
that one in five shopping bags
goes to waste.
That's what research has shown.
>> Sure.
So this was where I came
to, which was Sydney Harbor.
>> Far out.
Imagine if that's the postcard,
that we started sending out
of Australia.
Who wants to come here?
Apart from that
pile, can we have
little bits floating in the
harbor so that it's really--
this is too contained.
This is too nice.
>> Yes.
>> I want it to look so shocking
that you've got two things
to be shocked by.
The one is the scale
and the enormity,
but the other is actually how
we're treating out planet.
I want to be able to take
a little clip of this,
put it on social media,
get it out to the world
to highlight the shock factor.
>> OK.
>> Over the last few weeks
working with government,
they are talking about waste
in Australia being $20 billion
a year, not $10.
So it's double that.
>> Right, OK.
>> So $20 billion is
now what our minister
for the environment
is talking about.
>> Yeah, that's crazy.
>> It's insane.
>> This shot will be
one of those iconic--
>> Gasp.
>> --Hollywood moments.
>> Can you do that?
>> We can do that, yep.
>> Awesome.
>> The anniversary of
Jo's passing is this week.
I've got her schedule
cleared, just giving her space
to be with her family.
Yesterday, she rang me
early to let me know
that she was on her way in.
She was very broken up,
and she shared with me
that she's turning around.
She didn't want to break
down in front of anybody
and have them be uncomfortable.
>> This has been a tough year.
It's been the year that
we lost our precious Jo,
our daughter-in-law.
The extraordinary thing
is that the universe takes
and the universe brings.
And my other
daughter-in-law is pregnant,
and we have a little somebody
coming into the world.
>> Thanks.
Bye.
Seeing how we got
UKHarvest off the ground
made me realize how much more
it was needed in South Africa.
It's the right thing
to do, since the area
that I've been involved with
is so relevant to South Africa.
>> Ronni is very soft edged,
although when she gets upset,
she gets upset.
OzHarvest don't
like to have people
be very aggressive with
us or very rude to us.
>> She won't mince
words quietly.
>> I cannot have
somebody say to me,
I need 500 sandwiches today
or 20 kilos of coffee.
That isn't how it works.
>> Her jaw will tighten.
>> You do what you're
supposed to do,
and I will do what
I'm supposed to do.
OK?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
This is my street, but I have
to say it doesn't look anything
like when I lived here.
We didn't have
electric, barbed wire.
So I was born in this house,
and I lived here for 17 years
until I left South Africa.
I was born to white parents in a
country where black people were
discriminated against.
And over here is
where the Browde's
lived, Thelma and Alan.
And it says if this
has come full circle.
And it's extremely
emotional for me
to think that Alan is that
person who will roll out
South Africa Harvest.
All started here.
>> We grew up together,
really as brother and sister.
>> Hey!
>> Hey, Ronni.
Her mom has been a very
important influence
on Ronni's life.
She chose to do whatever she
could in fighting apartheid.
One of the things was the
electrification of Soweto.
You can imagine 2 million
people living together
in a city, no lights.
I think Ronni was inspired in
many ways by her ability just
to be a change maker.
>> I wanted to show you
this because in 2003,
when you brought me to
Soweto the first time,
that moment that shifted me from
thinking about what I was going
to do into action.
And I understood that you
were involved in bringing
electricity to Soweto.
>> So in the early 1970s, I
fought in the council to have
the lighting extended
to the whole of Soweto.
The newspaper helped me.
They said, let there be
light, and it happened.
>> Well, that's a good thing.
>> I resigned myself to, no,
you can't change the world.
>> Well, it's interesting
because I haven't quite come
to terms with that yet.
I'm still trying.
>> Wait 40 years.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Imagine 11 million people
having electricity now thanks
to one brave and courageous
woman, Selma Browde.
>> Today, about 60 million
people in South Africa.
12 million of them go to
bed hungry every night.
We're going to make this
thing start rolling.
We're going to start
with Selina, where we're
going to go just now, in Alex.
And we'll get it going.
>> Hi.
So we brought some food.
>> Are you going
inside with them?
[SINGING]
>> Her name is Ronni.
>> Ronni.
>> Yes.
No ma'am.
Ronni.
[SINGING]
>> You see here?
>> Yeah.
>> Made myself.
>> Ah.
Beautiful.
So how many children do you
feed generally every day?
>> 60 to 80.
>> Yeah.
[SINGING]
Oh, yummy food.
Delicious food for you today.
>> We could concentrate the
first 10 years here, and it--
>> Still wouldn't be enough.
>> So there's a
lot of work to do.
>> It's very hot.
OK?
We've done a lot of
great groundwork,
but we've got a lot
of work still to do.
You can't just breeze
in in five days
and build an organization
that it took me a year to do
in the country that I know.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Are we really for Bangkok?
>> We're ready.
Is Bangkok ready for us?
>> I don't know.
We were invited by the United
Nations environmental program
to run an event in Bangkok
to highlight food waste.
>> Bangkok is now locked in.
We've been working with
the UNEP to finalize
some of the details.
>> What time will
the event take place?
>> 12:00 to 2:00.
>> Yeah.
>> So we're looking at probably
five significant dishes,
which are contributed
from different chefs.
And there's plenty
of volunteer help.
>> Yeah.
OK, I've got to go because I'm
going to go rescue some food
and deliver it.
>> First [INAUDIBLE] Bangkok.
Ronni is on her way to
Bangkok, and there's so
many little meetings happening.
She's on the flight now.
Tucked a little
book into her bag.
>> So tomorrow we'll be feeding
probably 2,000 to 3,000 people
a meal from rescued food.
So we want them to understand
that surplus food is
good to eat.
Coming into Asia with
the stamp of approval
from the United Nations
Environmental Program
is hugely important.
>> [SPEAKING THAIWANESE]
Australia Sydney
[SPEAKING THAIWANESE].
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> We're in the middle of
the biggest shopping center,
in a temple of consumption.
Right in that heart
we're trying to send
the message that actually is
the exact opposite of that.
>> [SPEAKING THAIWANESE]
>> So its quarter to 11:00.
Doors open at 12:00.
But the exciting thing is
in that last half an hour,
it'll all come together.
>> Thank you.
See you.
>> This is bread and butter
pudding made from bread that
was destined for the landfills.
>> [SPEAKING THAIWANESE]
>> I'm pretty overwhelmed that
we could come into a completely
foreign culture where food
rescue is not an acceptable
norm.
>> Thank you all for coming.
>> I'm driving.
So many people believe there
is a need for a Harvest model,
so that's pretty exciting.
But we definitely have
to look at scaling
it to work in this culture.
We're taking all
this wonderful food
that's left over to an orphanage
so that the children can
get to eat the surplus food.
And we have a group of the
children coming up right now.
Do these children have parents?
>> Some have a
mother, no father.
Some have a father, no mother.
>> Hello.
>> Hi.
Hello.
These children are just--
how many kids do
you have, or how
many people at any given time?
>> We have anything from 450
to 500 people in the compound
at any one time.
We work specifically with
underprivileged women
and children.
>> So some of these children
come because they're abused.
Some of them come
because they're orphans.
because they're refugees.
>> We started off with 300
refugees from maybe two
or three countries.
Now we have them from 700.
>> There are many Sister
Louisas, and there are many,
many millions of kids
that don't have food.
It is moving beyond words.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Ronni's got one of the
biggest days of our lives.
So this is CEO CookOff
in the UK with Jamie.
Camilla's the patron, and
it's a pretty big deal.
>> Need a hand?
I'm just coming in to say hello.
>> Good to see you.
>> Is it all happening?
Am I going to love it?
>> Yes, it's just a bit of a--
>> Of course it's a barn fight.
But is it good, Georgie?
>> It's going to be nice.
>> Yeah?
>> There's some
beautiful yellow flowers.
>> There are?
I didn't notice any.
>> As a co-branded event.
>> There is no co-branding.
Georgie, come on.
I totally get it it's
a different scale.
We're dealing with
a corporate brand,
and we're a charity brand.
And they're too--
in this instance,
there's about this
much alignment.
It will be a spectacular event.
It just happens not to be
an event that I would ever
put our name to, in a nutshell.
It's not our event.
I'm done venting.
It's all done.
I have not met Jamie face
to face since the day
that they chose, committed to
holding this event together.
No yellow.
It's not right.
I fear that tomorrow will be an
event without the heart which
is the core of every
single OzHarvest event.
We have a yellow sign.
I am so excited.
I could cry.
Yvonne, it's your IP
that made it happen.
UKHarvest get a funding
boost, and you're
going to be fabulous tonight.
You own this.
Don't forget it.
There's nothing I own here.
I don't want to own it.
But look, here's our van.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hello, your honor.
How lovely to see you.
>> Thanks for being here.
It's a bit chilly.
>> Thank you so much, so
lovely to see you again,
and thank you for
being our patron.
It's fantastic.
It's amazing.
We brought yellow.
>> You brought
warmer conditions.
>> Exactly.
This is our UK CEO.
This is Yvonne Thompson.
This way.
>> So 30 shifts are feeding 500
local heroes and raising money
for UKHarvest and
Jamie's foundation.
Fantastic.
>> I know them all quite well.
>> Oh, beautiful.
That's so wonderful.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
And Her Royal Highness
said, I'd love
to see a version
of this in the UK.
I heard that, and I said,
we'll make it happen.
And now Her Royal
Highness is our patron.
>> This charity is now up
and running in this country.
>> Absolutely.
Her Royal Highness
has shared with me
that Prince Charles is
absolutely a waste warrior.
She said, no food goes
to waste in their house.
It would be off with your
head if you wasted food.
I was hysterical, but now
I feel brilliant because I
had a long talk to Jamie.
He said, how are you
feeling about the event?
I said, well, you
probably may or may not
know that in Australia
we feed 1,000
homeless and the hungry people.
He said, why aren't
we doing that here?
I just looked at him and
said, because your people--
because you didn't agree to.
>> I think for a first
year it's good energy.
It's an amazing turnout.
>> It's awesome energy.
I think we need to
focus on the waste more
because waste is the new black.
>> Yeah.
>> But I think that there's
power in us doing stuff
together.
>> Definitely.
And I guess we should
keep reminding ourselves
that great change is happening.
And I think what's
really nice is
in the UK we're learning
from the success you've
had in Aussie.
And I think that the world's
a small place now, right?
I'm quite excited to be
going this Facebook live.
We try and create an environment
where chefs, food, CEOs,
food business come together.
And also, how cool are
the everyday heroes?
It's so, so amazing.
>> OK.
Say bye.
>> Love you guys take care.
Thanks for watching.
Share it, like it, comment it.
>> The UK CEO CookOff with
Jamie definitely had a great
spin-off, and I so look forward
to working with him again
in the future.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
UKHarvest is set
up as a company.
>> This is a center that
supports asylum seekers,
particularly people that have
escaped human trafficking
or have experienced torture.
That's a good one.
I'll take that one there.
>> We've already got some
trustees on our board,
and it's full systems go.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> You get way too many emails.
What else is out of the
ordinary for tomorrow?
Cheeky's is coming in.
>> Tomorrow?
>> Yeah.
And that is an hour.
I mean, you can't give
any more than that.
So Saturday, fill me in on
what happened with Woolworths.
>> I was so nervous,
I was up at 5:00.
Marla?
>> Yes?
>> Don't look too closely.
>> What?
>> It's from our major supplier.
I didn't sleep all night.
>> Yeah.
>> It's our biggest partnership,
and that was at stake when you
cause a problem for a partner.
Then I said, we've discovered
this dumpster by chance,
but that was full of
beautiful food that
shouldn't have been there.
And he was horrified,
but he said,
we working so hard with
OzHarvest to fix the problem,
and that they're committed to
solving the problem with us.
>> That was a great opportunity
for you and him to sit down,
talk about it, get it out.
>> So one of the things on
your list here is that we meet
quarterly for coffee.
>> Awesome.
OK, yeah.
Well, it's a good partnership.
>> Yeah.
Yeah, it is.
It just needs to trickle
down to his people.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So I am just driving
to Kensington, where
we have been donated to space.
We're doing Australia's first
free supermarket, giving away
produce that we
collect for free--
Pastries.
--and making sure that
it goes to a good home.
When we were in Paris, we
went into a free supermarket.
People had to show their card
to show that they had no money,
and that is exactly
what I don't want.
>> There's some argument whether
this is the world's first,
but it's most definitely
an Australia first,
this incredible market here.
But really, it's yet
another incredible showcase
of the inspiration of Ronni
and the entire OzHarvest team.
Can I please welcome our
fearless and occasionally
fearsome leader, Ronni Khan.
[APPLAUSE]
>> Wow.
It is an exciting moment,
a free supermarket.
It is time to disrupt.
We are so excited to
launch the OzHarvest
Market, where you have to walk
through a heart to get inside.
Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
I tried not to cry.
>> Potatoes.
>> Here in this free supermarket
where you can take what you
need and give if you can.
>> Pop them in this
bag here for you.
>> This is a public
demonstration of highlighting
a problem and offering
one potential solution.
>> She saw the need, and then
she just bulldozed her way
through to find the solution.
>> So we are all to blame.
>> It's as if she has, I think,
some kind of higher calling
for this, and she just
will not be defeated.
>> The federal government
has signal its commitment
to cutting in half the amount of
food the nation wastes by 2030.
>> Two years ago in mid 2015,
we actually got this initial
commitment.
>> National Food Waste Strategy.
>> We have been pushing and
shoving because nothing has
come out of Canberra.
>> The government stuff
really does frustrate her.
She cannot deal with
this bureaucracy.
>> They have completely let us,
the people of Australia, down.
>> She feels like none of them
care enough to go at it at her
sort of pace.
>> I am absolutely sure that the
Zero Food Waste Forum is what
triggered the government into
action to delivering a national
food waste strategy
on November 20.
They don't really know
what to do with me,
but they know that I am not
going to leave them alone.
They also know that
I have expertise
and have been studying what's
happening around the world.
So I've now been appointed
on to the Advisory Strategy
Committee.
And today, this meeting is
to say, we've lost two years
and done nothing.
You now have an opportunity
as the new minister
for the environment to actually
do something significant.
Hello.
>> Hi.
How are you?
Nice to see you.
>> Thank you so much--
>> No, lovely to see you.
>> --for your time today.
I want to thank you so
much for taking a stand
and committing publicly to
minimize food waste by 50%.
>> Absolutely.
>> It is huge leadership, huge.
And committing to this summit
in November is fantastic.
>> Now we just have to deliver.
>> Well, that's
exactly why we're here,
because we want to
make it easy for you.
And I hope that what we
have to share with you today
will be helpful.
That's really what it's about.
>> The fact that we waste
at least 20% of what we buy,
costing us $20 billion a year,
so much of this lands it ends
up in landfill, the CO2 impact,
the impact on the environment.
We can do better.
We must do better.
>> So thank you for your time.
>> No problem.
>> Shabbat Shalom.
>> You too.
Shabbat Shalom.
Bye.
>> Bye.
Qantas has decided
to come to the party.
We were only collecting
three days a week.
We are now collecting
every day of the week.
We have been donated a
van by Neil Perry, who is
the chef ambassador for Qantas.
How much food are we collecting?
>> I would say on average it'd
be close to 100 kilos a day,
Monday to Friday.
>> And among that produce, are
we getting any of the daily
yogurt that might
come off the trays?
>> Not from Qantas.
>> Todd took a while to
get to this for how long?
>> We're now coming up to nearly
our second year anniversary.
So we first started
off in Sydney.
We then looked to Brisbane,
to Melbourne, and then Perth.
So the program's now nationwide.
>> So this is awesome.
I love seeing the
apples, the dry goods.
But you know, for me,
where's the yogurt?
Where's the milk?
>> They're coming.
They're coming.
>> Where are the
cold chain things?
Because they're getting
dumped at the moment.
>> We're managing cold chain.
We're looking out
for the safety of all
of those people in the community
who receive those items.
I
>> Get frustrated when I
know that the laws have been
changed, the Civil Liabilities
Amendment Act has been passed
in four states.
From my point of view, give
us the food because it's not
your liability.
It's perfectly good.
>> It's just
monitoring the quality.
>> I was with another one of
our major suppliers when I said,
and what about this and this.
He said, Ronni,
you're like a jet ski
trying to pull Queen Mary
or pulling an aeroplane.
>> It's inspiring, though.
>> I'm not going to stop.
>> No, you shouldn't.
>> If we've received over 90
tons of food in the last two
years, it's about 270,000
meals thanks to Qantas so far.
It is fantastic.
I just want to be sure that
we don't leave a single bit
of food going to waste.
>> Not at all.
>> Cheers.
>> Bye.
>> Still no bloody yogurt.
It's just crazy.
>> I've had Ronni on
a nonstop schedule.
There's been London,
there's been South Africa,
and now Bangkok again.
It'll be my first time
traveling with her overseas.
>> I was given the opportunity
to apply for some funding
to bring an OzHarvest
model to Bangkok.
We're in partnership with SOS.
They're an existing
organization,
and that's one reason
we partnered with them.
But it's a difficult
partnership.
Of course we wanted the yellow,
and all the time the King
was alive, yellow was
just this perfect color.
But we have taken advice
that in Thailand right now,
it's not politically wise.
Thank you.
We've got Tesco on board.
We're delivering 1,000
kilos of food a day.
>> [SPEAKING THAIWANESE]
>> I pitched an idea to get
some money, got some money,
and then you turn
it into a real--
yeah, it's cool.
Hello.
>> Okay?.
>> Thank you very much.
>> My life, I've never
flown on so many planes.
It's only when I land in
South Africa, the smell
and the sounds that
then it invokes
everything in my childhood.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
We're in Pretoria because
we're doing that dinner
event at the UN--
>> Sustainable Food Conference.
>> --Sustainable
Food Conference.
>> We're very excited because
this SA Harvest's first
function in South Africa.
And of course,
it's high profile,
as there will be a lot of
international delegates
and a lot of local
government representatives.
So it will help put
SA Harvest on the map.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Who would've thought?
>> Who would've--
>> Seriously, who
would've thought?
>> So look here in the shadow
of the Union buildings.
>> Yeah.
>> This symbolizes the whole
of the people of South Africa.
We're starting something
that will benefit them all.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> [SINGING] Please, attention.
>> Being here in
South Africa tonight,
launching South Africa
Harvest, this is the country
of my birth.
Although I have left it, the
incredibly special part for me
is to know that now there is
a way for South Africa Harvest
to be giving back to all
of those people in need.
This is how so many people
live in this country.
I think it's a big
challenge here.
I just haven't
quite nailed it yet.
I want more than anything to
be delivering food right here.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Today, our current minister
for the environment,
Josh Frydenberg, is launching
the national food waste
strategy.
Our first Zero Food
Waste Forum kicked off
the impetus and the demand
among the food supply
chain for action, and that's
what has led us to today.
About three months
or four months ago,
they asked me for a budget
based on best practice.
We calculated $30
million on what
the first four-year
rollout could be,
which would achieve
our 2030 goal.
So today I am ever hopeful as to
what they're going to release.
>> Ladies and gentlemen,
welcome to the Australian
government's National
Food Waste Summit.
My name's Annabell
Crabb, and I will
be checking that you clear your
plates, every last bit please.
>> Everybody in there is sort of
sitting in shock because it was
such an underwhelming release.
$1.37 million over 24 months.
Does that say 1.3 or 13.7?
It's a joke.
It's just pathetic.
He came to me and
he said, I want you
at the press conference.
I've already told him,
we need more money.
Don't fuck it up.
>> OK.
Well, thank you very much.
It's a great pleasure to be here
at the launch of the National
Food Waste Summit and strategy.
And I'm here with Ronni,
who's the head of OzHarvest.
There are good economic,
good environmental,
and good social reasons why
we must reduce food waste.
And today, we've
announced a million
to Food Innovation Australia.
It's a national endeavor,
and we're determined
to get a good outcome.
>> We will do everything that
we can to support this strategy.
We've been working towards it.
We know that it's going to
take a lot of money, time,
and effort, and that is what
is in store for all of us.
>> Thank you, Ronni.
>> Thank you.
I was ambushed on
national TV, and I just
didn't know how to not
look like an idiot.
And I looked like an
idiot because I didn't
say what I really thought.
So that felt shit.
But it would not have
served my end goal
to alienate him and make
him look like an idiot.
Just because I was
politically maneuvered
does not mean that I
endorse the strategy.
I was here 13 years
AGO and I will
continue to fight this battle.
But the politicians
of today are not
going to be around in 13 years.
So for them, it's
what gets votes now,
and that's the
disappointing part.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Today, I'm a granny, I'm a CEO.
But priorities,
this is my priority.
His name is Lev Vishnu Khan.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> (SINGING) When I was
young, my voice was small.
Mama said you can't change--
>> Lev means heart in Hebrew.
>> (SINGING) That's the way--
>> Vishnu is the Hindu god.
>> (SINGING) --the river flows
>> There's one reason that I
get up in the morning motivated
to fix this world a little
bit and make it a little bit
better, and that's so that this
little one has a better world.
>> (SINGING) There's
something wrong with--
>> If every single one of
us did something that made
a difference, then we'd have a
whole lot of difference made.
And perhaps we'd
have a world that
was much more compassionate,
caring, loving, giving,
sharing.
Wouldn't we?
And that's the world
we want for you.
>> (SINGING) My dear, let's go.
I didn't realize.
>> I could never have known
what this journey that I was
embarking on then
would lead me to.
But somehow it's
so addictive when
you can see that you
can make a difference.
I guess that's the power.
And now that I know the
scale of the problem,
this will be my life's work.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Where's the yogurt?
Where's the milk?
Where are the cold chain things?
Hi.
We brought some food.
>> [INAUDIBLE].
>> Can we do more?
That's like it's never-ending.
Hey, Marla.
Come over her.
I've just got the CGI from
that dude for our social media
to show what $20 billion
worth of food waste
is going to look like.
>> Oh my god.
That is unreal.
That is unbelievable.
>> Think it's going to work?
>> Yeah.
>> They look nice and frickly.
Oh, beautiful.
Oh, I got a wonky one.
This has changed my
life, because now I
don't have to put stuff
in the garbage bin.
It's so beautiful.
There's only one way
we're going to change it,
and it's one person at a time.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> (SINGING) Shine
your light on.
Shine for everyone.
Shine your light on.
Turn your light on.
Shine for everyone.